In this video, I want to show you three more possible solutions that will not work to actually solve
this concurrency stuff.
Now, for some people listening to this video, these concurrency discussions might be a little bit
confusing or really vague or boring.
So if you do not want to hear anything else about concurrency, pause this video right now and go on
to the next video.
Otherwise, stick around and I'll show you three more possible solutions you might think of that are
not going to quite work out.
So if you're still here, let's get to it.
So here's another possible solution that is not going to quite work in this possible solution.
We're going to say that we once again have multiple instances of the account service A and B.
We're also going to say that A and B have some shared state between the two of them.
So this might be some shared Reddit server.
It might be a shared database.
It might be direct network connections.
Whatever it is, it is some shared piece of information in the shared state.
We're going to record the sequence number of every processed event that ever gets processed by A and
B.
Then whenever A or B receives an event due process, it will look into the shared state and make sure
that the previous sequence number has already been processed.
So let's walk through what this would really look like.
So we're going to imagine that we get number one, it goes over to service.
A service will immediately process this event.
So it's going to deposit $70.
It will then take that sequence number and put it into the shared store like so.
Next up, sequence number two, that's a deposit.
We'll imagine that goes over to B, B is going to then look into this data store and see if the previous
event sequence number.
So in this case, number one has already been processed.
Number one has been processed because it is inside the data store.
And that means that now Service B can successfully or at least try to process number two.
So in this case, deposit $40, no problem.
Well, then take that sequence number and put it in the shared data store and then finally withdrawal
goes over to a.
Eight checks to see if number two has been processed because three minus one is two.
Yep.
Looks like two's already in there, so we can successfully withdraw the $100 right away.
So this is a good solution and that it makes sure that we're only ever going to process any event exactly
one time.
And we're always going to make sure that we only process any or all of our events in the correct order.
That's the benefit to the solution.
The downside is that it requires to process all the events that comes into the services in essentially
a sequential fashion, which has a really big performance penalty.
Think about what would happen here.
If we had actually two accounts instead of just one.
So let's say that we've got an account for user A that starts off at zero and user B that starts off
at zero.
So now this first event right here might be a deposit for user a.
The next one might be a deposit for user B, so let's now imagine this goes into A and this goes into
B.
Now at this point.
Be down here is going to take a look at this shared store and going to say, has number one been processed
yet?
Well, in this scenario, no, we're still waiting.
And let's imagine that this event fails processing for whatever reasoning.
Maybe service aide does not have a connection or a connection to the file store.
Or maybe it's just laggy, or who knows what's going on.
So we have to essentially wait for this deposit or this event right here to time out over the span of
30 seconds and eventually be reissued by the Nats server.
And while we are waiting for that 30 seconds, the deposit for account V right here is going to be held
up even though this account right here account for user B is completely unrelated from user A.
So in other words, we are always limited globally for all of our different accounts to only processing
exactly one update at a time, which is clearly not a great thing.
It means every single update that we want to make inside of our application, only one update.
And that means that we are going to be severely constrained in how many or how much processing or how
many updates we can run at any given point in time.
So this solution looks good, but it doesn't quite work.
Let's try to take some elements from the solution, though, and move it forward to another attempt.
Okay.
So now in this attempt, we're going to try to directly solve that issue we ran into with the last one.
So in this case, we're going to say that we're going to track exactly which event or which user each
event is intended to be processed for.
So in this case, we're going to say that user gem gets sequenced, number one.
He's trying to deposit $70.
So this is going to go off to service.
We're going to try to process for user Jim.
A deposit of 70.
So let's go ahead and make that change.
And then inside the shared data store, we will say that for user Jim, we have processed his first
event, so we'll store it like so.
So then the next event to come in is maybe sequence number one for user Mary, and she is trying to
deposit $40.
So because this is the first event for user Mary, we'll just go ahead and immediately deposit that
40.
Everything looks good.
Then inside the shared data store, we will also record.
We've got Mary's first event.
Then user Jim is going to have two and three.
We have processed both those and share them inside this data store.
So this is very similar, but now each user has their own sequence numbers.
How does this solve the issue we just ran into?
Well, let's think through it really quickly.
I'm going to undo the diagram.
So we're back to event number one coming into service right here.
Let's say that we go ahead and process this event.
And we deposit $70 into User Gym's account.
So now we're going to have this first event for Mary go over to service fee and simultaneously we'll
imagine that this deposit for gym goes into service a.
So now once again, let's say that user Mary's Deposit right here is having some big issues.
Maybe there's an error in processing, maybe B cannot connect to the file storage.
Whatever it is, we cannot process this event with the previous solution we just looked at that would
have held up Jim's deposit as well.
But because we are accounting sequence numbers separately for different users, this service A is going
to take a look inside of our shared sequence numbers database.
It's going to say, okay, for user Jim, we already processed Jim's first event.
Well, this has an event number of two, so we are definitely safe in processing Jim's second event.
Let's go ahead and deposit $40.
So now Jim is up to 110.
Then Jim can issue his withdrawal.
Well, once again, look in.
Okay.
User Jim, we've done his first and second event.
We're now on his third.
Yep.
Let's go ahead and process it.
Let's withdraw $100.
We're now down to ten.
Everything looks good.
And in this entire process, we might still be waiting on user Mary's first deposit.
So with this kind of scenario, we can make sure that one user does not affect another user.
Now we're talking about users here, but of course, this kind of applies to any kind of resource.
We can essentially say that any request it's going to modify some type of resource.
We're going to put all the events related to one kind of owner of that resource into its own kind of
sequence pool.
Now, this is a great solution right here, but there is a little issue with the actual implementation.
We're really talking about giving every user or every kind of owner of something here, its own personal
little bit of sequence.
It turns out that with that streaming server to get a restarted sequence, we have to create a totally
different channel.
So if we want to do something like this, we would have to have two channels reserved just for Jim,
and we might give them a name like Account Deposit Jim and account withdrawal Jim.
We then have to come up with two identical looking.
Channels.
Dedicated just to Mary.
So deposit for Mary and withdrawal for Mary as well.
That is the only way out of the box with Nat streaming server that we can get those restarted sequence
numbers.
And this definitely sounds like, well, hey, whatever, let's just create more channels.
Unfortunately Nat streaming server, there is a decent amount of overhead in adding more channels to
be processed out of the box.
That streaming server is only going to allow you to have 1000 channels by default.
We can increase that number, of course, or decrease it if we want to.
But as we create more channels, there's more processing overhead with each one that we create.
So we are not going to be able to create a separate set of channels for every single user or every type
of resource that needs its own sequence numbering.
So this is a solution that definitely looks good, but it's not going to work with net streaming.
And as a matter of fact, it turns out that this idea of having these different pools or these different
channels where each one has its own little sequence, it turns out that creating these different sequences
with any event bus ends up being a lot of processing overhead.
So you're going to see some resources online that advocate this kind of approach.
But unfortunately, again, you're going to have a kind of tough time finding an event bus implementation
that will allow each of these to get their own sequence numbers.
Okay.
So, all right, let's take a look at one more possible solution.
So in this possible solution, we're going to see something that's very similar to the one we just looked
at, where we're going to work around that limitation of not being able to assign each of our different
users or kind of owners of resource their own separate sequence numbers.
Now, the other thing I want to remind you is that I've been showing all these diagrams with the sequence
number being known somehow to the publisher.
In reality, the sequence number is not automatically known to the publisher.
Instead, our publisher is going to publish some event.
It's going to go over to the NAT streaming server, and only then does it get assigned a sequence number,
and then after that it will be sent on to whatever listeners there are.
So in this approach, we're going to start off with this list of events once again, and we're going
to somehow store each of these events at the publisher.
So when I say store the event, I literally mean the publishers can have some kind of database where
it is going to list all the different events that it has dispatched over time.
As it dispatches each of these events.
We're going to hope or just kind of pray that after it gets sent over to Nat streaming server, Nat's
will send back a message and say, Here's the sequence number of the event that you just dispatched.
So we throw this thing over.
It would be assigned number one, and then we would hope that Nat String Server will send that number
one back over to our publisher.
So then this publisher can say, okay, I dispatched an event, it had sequence of number one and that
was for user Jim.
And here's what the actual event was.
So then this event.
We'll go on to our services and then be processed.
So we'll say in this case, okay, let's go ahead and deposit $70 into Jim's account.
So here's Jim right here, deposit $70.
And then simultaneously, we're going to make sure that Service A right here stores the ID of the sequence
number or the sequence the sequence number of the event it just processed.
So it would store number one to say I just processed number one.
So now the publisher would move on to say number two.
Same thing would occur here.
We're going to dispatch that.
This thing will be assigned number two, because, remember, we can only get sequence numbers for the
overall events that go into a channel.
So hopefully once again, this number two would be sent back over to our publisher and it would save
that number two right there.
This would go on to our service.
We would take a look at Mary.
We would deposit $40 into her account.
And we would say the last idea that we processed for this thing was number two.
So now we move on to user Jim.
With user Jim, we know that we are making a modification in the user Jim and we know that the last
time we modified user, Jim was right here because we are storing all these events.
So we know that the last time we modified user Jim, we had an event with the sequence number of number
one.
So we put in the number one right there.
We would then throw this event once again over to Nats.
This thing would be assigned a sequence number of number three.
We would record that back over here and then we would send this event on to one of our listeners.
And now here's the critical part.
When Service A takes a look at this and it goes to process it, it would take a look at what the last
ID was or the last sequence number for an event that modified user Jim.
Cersei could then look inside the database and make sure that the most recent ID for Jim was number
one.
As long as that number one right there and number one right there are equal to each other.
Then service, they will say, okay, I will process this event.
I will deposit $40, taking us up to 110 and then record this things ID or sequence number as the last
sequence processed.
And now finally we would move on.
So for user Jim right here, we know that this is about Jim.
So once again, we'd take a look at the most recent event.
That thing had a sequence number of three.
So we'd put that in right there.
Send this off to nets.
This would be given sequence number four.
And then once again, this would go on to our listener.
So now we're making a modification to user.
Jim.
We would make sure the last ID we processed our last sequence number was number three.
Yep, it was.
So let's go ahead and apply this update.
We're going to withdraw $100.
We're now down to ten and we'll update that sequence ID right there to four.
And that's the whole idea.
So we're going to essentially the keys here are to make sure that the publisher understands the IDs
or the sequences applied to every given event that's going to store those and will know which IDs are,
which sequences apply to which user.
Then whenever it dispatches a event tied to that user in the future, it will also attach the sequence
for the previous event that modified it.
So now with this whole scenario, imagine what would happen.
If we simultaneously.
Kind of rewind here a little bit.
Let me undo a little bit.
And let's say that we go back to the scenario where.
We've got a deposit.
For Jim.
And simultaneously a withdrawal as well.
Like so.
So in this case, the deposit would have a sequence of three and then four.
So the most recent event for the withdrawal would have been the three.
Yeah, there we go.
So let's imagine what would happen if we accidentally try to process the withdrawal before the deposit.
In this case, service B would take a look at the ID of the last processed one.
It was number one.
But this thing, this event says that the last event or the last sequence number concerned with this
event was number three.
One and three are not equal.
So Service B would refuse to process this event right here.
It would say, you know what, number one has to be number three has not yet been processed.
We're going to assume that's going to come in very shortly.
But until it does, I'm going to refuse to process this event entirely.
So then we would just essentially sit around and wait eventually, if this thing times out and gets
sent back over to you, that's no problem.
We're just going to keep waiting around until eventually sequence number three gets processed.
When sequence number three gets processed, the one is equal to the last ID processed right here.
So we'll go ahead and process that.
We're up to the 110.
And now finally, we can handle this event right here.
Okay.
So this one admittedly is pretty darn confusing.
Does this work?
Well, yes and no, not quite.
The whole problem here, you might have noticed when I drag this thing over, I had said that the publisher
doesn't actually know the sequence number.
And so we were going to kind of hope that that sent back the sequence number.
That does not actually occur when we send an event off to be published by not streaming.
It's kind of a one way operation.
We don't really get the ability to somehow reach out to Nats and say, Hey, for that event we published
a little bit ago, what was the sequence number on?
It is something that gets published or known only by Nats and we have a pretty tough time to reach in
and figure out what that sequence number actually was.
So we can't really somehow reach back and say, Oh yeah, this thing was given a sequence number of
one.
So any now any future event tied to a user of Jim.
In this case, it would have been this one right here.
The last sequence should have been one.
That's the part that we can't really solve.
We can't really store what the last sequence number was for Jim.
Nonetheless, this does seem like it's getting even closer, even though we are being held up by a little
technical limitation here.
So that's it for these three additional possible solutions.
Once again, I apologize for the duration of this video.
This was an optional video and I just wanted to throw out these other possible solutions.
So a quick pause right here.
We'll take a look at how we're going to actually solve this in the next video.